Title: Academy of Margins – Conversation 02: Female Genealogy, Restorative Garden

----

Date: 2022-06-11

----

Time: 16:00:00

----

Text:

“My mother was always a passionate gardener, after the birth of my youngest sister she decided to go back to school and formalise her education. She became a landscape designer at the age of 40, to everyone’s surprise. She was always interested in healing herbs and plants. She described a garden where healing would happen through smells, textures, colours. She spoke about spending time with plants in order to heal. My two sisters and I grew up learning both latin and colloquial names of plant species as she would point to trees, shrubs, grasses and flowers in parks, gardens or forests.

Last September my youngest sister and I visited Topolo for the first time. Many things caught our attention in the village during those four days: the terraced landscape, simple stone architectures, the walks in the forest, the effervescence of the Robida members, the affection towards a repair project. But perhaps what resonated the most was the history of the village and its entanglement with the life story of three generations of women (Vida and Elena, their mother and grandmother).
(…)

The Milan Women’s Bookstore Cooperative describe feminism itself as “female genealogy,” because in order to create their own culture, women need to start from their own history.Does female genealogy start at home?

From june 10-13th my sister and I return to Topolò, this time with our mother. We join Robida with our own history: as a landscape designer/gardener, an architect/curator and a graphic designer/photographer. Throughout four days we will be exploring healing herbs and plants in the village and around: what is already there, what might be possible to grow and imagine how a space for a medicinal and restorative garden to spend time in could look like in Topolò.”
Rosario Talevi 🌱

See you in Izba or tune in on the radio! The conversation will be in multiple languages (English, Spanish, Italian…